A layered defense is
difficult to penetrate.
When one barrier fails,
another takes its place
to stop an attack.
Defense in depth is
a security model that
makes use of this concept.
It's a layered approach to
vulnerability management
that reduces risk.
Defense in depth is
commonly referred to as
the castle approach because it
resembles the layered
defenses of a castle.
In the Middle Ages,
these structures were very
difficult to penetrate.
They featured
different defenses,
each unique in its design, that
posed different challenges
for attackers.
For example, a
water-filled barrier
called a moat usually formed
a circle around the castle,
preventing threats like
large groups of attackers from
reaching the castle walls.
The few soldiers that made
it past the first layer of
defense were then faced with
a new challenge,
giant stone walls.
A vulnerability of
these structures
were that they could be climbed.
If attackers tried exploiting
that weakness, guess what?
They were met with
another layer of defense,
watch towers, filled
with defenders
ready to shoot arrows and
keep them from climbing!
Each level of defense of
these medieval structures
minimized the risk of
attacks by identifying
vulnerabilities and
implementing a security control
should one system fail.
Defense in depth works
in a similar way.
The defense in depth concept
can be used to
protect any asset.
It's mainly used in
cybersecurity to protect
information using a
five layer design.
Each layer features a number
of security controls that
protect information as it
travels in and out of the model.
The first layer of defense in
depth is the perimeter layer.
This layer includes
some technologies
that we've already explored,
like usernames and passwords.
Mainly, this is
a user authentication layer
that filters external access.
Its function is to
only allow access to
trusted partners to reach
the next layer of defense.
Second, the network
layer is more
closely aligned
with authorization.
The network layer is made up of
other technologies like
network firewalls and others.
Next, is the endpoint layer.
Endpoints refer to the devices
that have access on a network.
They could be devices
like a laptop,
desktop, or a server.
Some examples of
technologies that protect
these devices are
anti-virus software.
After that, we get to
the application layer.
This includes all the interfaces
that are used to interact
with technology.
At this layer,
security measures are
programmed as part
of an application.
One common example is
multi-factor authentication.
You may be familiar
with having to enter
both your password
and a code sent by SMS.
This is part of the
application layer of defense.
And finally, the fifth layer of
defense is the data layer.
At this layer, we've arrived at
the critical data that
must be protected,
like personally
identifiable information.
One security control
that is important here in
this final layer of defense
is asset classification.
Like I mentioned earlier,
information passes in
and out of each of
these five layers whenever
it's exchanged over a network.
There are many more security
controls aside from the few
that I mentioned that are part
of the defense in depth model.
A lot of businesses design
their security systems using
the defense in-depth model.
Understanding this
framework hopefully
gives you a better sense of how
an organization's
security controls work
together to protect
important assets.